			Programming and Data Structures

Programming in C

developed by : Dennis Ritchie
developed at AT Bell laboratries AT&T (American Telephone & Telegraph)
location : USA


c programing language is used for creating system application 
that directly intract with the hardware devices such as driver, kernal etc.


C programing language is base for programming language that's why it is known as mother Language

it can be defined as :

Mother language :
it is modern programming language because most of compilers,JVMs, Kernals, etc are written in C language
Most of the programming language are follow C syntax
for example : C++, c#,java
it provide core concept of  Array, String,funtions,file handling etc.
that is being used in many language like C++, java,C#

system programming language :
A system programming language is used to create the system software.
C language is system programming language 
Because it can be used to low-level programming 
for example : driver  and kernal

procedrue-oriented programming language:
A procedure means function, method,routine,subroutine etc.
A procedural language means 
	1.steps for the program to solve the any issue/program or 
	2.step follow to perform any task
A procedural language break the program into funtions, data structure etc.
C is a procedural language 
In C , variables and function prototypes must be declared before being used

structured programming language
A structured programming language is the subset of procedural language
Structure means -- break and program into parts or blocks
So that it may be easy to understand
here blocks means functions

mid level programming language 
C is  middle-level language beacause it support both feature 
1. low level language
2. high level language

C program converted into assembly code, 
It support pointer airthmetic(it is the feature of low level language)
but it is machine independent (it is the feature of high level language)

c program example 

save as main.c

#include<stdio.h>
int main(){
printf("this is C program");
return 0;
}

Features of c programming language 

Simple 
Portable
Mid level language 
structured programming language
Rich library
Memory Management 
Fast speed
Pointer
Recursion
Extensible

Simple : 
C programming language is Structured programming language 
It follows Structured Approach 
Here Structured Approach means Break the program into parts
Structured Approach means it Contain Set of library and data types etc.

Portable :
C Can be executed in diffrent machines 
Example : if you write a code in your machine it can be Write in any machine without any change in single line 

mid level programming language:
low level language because it is used to develop system applications suc as kernal,driver etc.
high level language beacause it is used to support the feature of High level language 

here it means C programming language support both low level as well as high level laguage feature that is wehy it is called as mid level language 

Structured Programming language : we have discuss it previously 
Structured progragmming language bacause we can break the prpgram into parts 
using funtions
due to this it is easy to understand and modify the code 
Because Functions are reusable

Rich library :
C provode Lots of inbuild functions that makes developement fast.

Memory Management :
C Programming support dynamic memory allocation
In C we can free the alocated memory at any time by calling free() function.

Speed :
The compilation and Execution time of C is very fast 

Pointer :
C provides a the feature of pointer
We can directly initract with the memory by using pointer.
We can use pointer for memory, structure, funtions, array etc.

Recursion :
when a function call it self within a funtion.
it provides code reusability for every funtion.
Recursion enables us to use the approach for backtracking.

Extensible :
C language is Extensible 
it can easily adopt new features

-------------------------------------------------
First C program 

#include <stdio.h>
int main(){
printf("Hello C language");
return 0;
}

Explain this code :

#include <stdio.h>
It is preprocessor directive
it tells the compiler to include the standard input/output library
this library Provides Functions for input and output operation 
such as 
	1.printf
	2.scanf
	
int main(){
This line start the 'main' function
In C Every Program must have 'main' function and execution begins from here 

printf ("Hello C program");
printf is a function used to show the output
it prints the specified string to standard output

return 0;
this is the return statement 
it tellsthe program to return an exit status to operating system
in case 0 is returned : It indicates that program executed successfully
in case non-zero returned : It indicates diffrent type of error

}
This is closing brace
tells that end of the 'main' funtion 




